README.md, before:

# useblocks-theme
This repository contains the theme for all Useblock documentation sites.

> **NOTE:** Useblocks uses the Sphinx-Immaterial theme so ensure that the theme is already installed and applied.

## Installation
To install the files from this repository, you must have [Git](https://git-scm.com) installed.

* Change directory to your preferred docs working directory
  ```bash
  cd docs
  ```
* Download the files from the repository:
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/useblocks/useblocks-theme.git 
  ```

## Configuration

You must configure the following in the **conf.py** file of the Sphinx documentation project.

* Add the `html_theme_options` to your **conf.py**:
    * Import the theme options for Useblocks.
      ```python
      from ub_theme.conf import html_theme_options
        ```
    * Set it as the value for the `html_theme_options` variable.
      ```python
      html_theme_options = html_theme_options
        ```
* Add the custom template changes folder to the `templates_path` variable.
  ```python
  templates_path = ['ub_theme/templates']
  ```
* Add custom CSS changes:
    * Add the folder containing the CSS files to the `html_static_path` variable.
      ```python
      html_static_path = ["ub_theme/css"]
        ```
    * Add the custom CSS files to the `html_css_files` variable.
      ```python
      html_css_files = ['ub-theme.css']
        ```
* Add custom JS changes:
    * Add the folder containing the JS files to the `html_static_path` variable.
      ```python
      html_static_path = ["ub_theme/js"]
        ```
    * Add the custom JS files to the `html_js_files` variable.
      ```python
      html_js_files = ['ub-theme.js']
        ```
  
The final configuration should look like below:
```python
from ub_theme.conf import html_theme_options

extensions = [
    "sphinx_immaterial",
]

templates_path = ['ub_theme/templates']

html_theme = "sphinx_immaterial"
html_theme_options = html_theme_options

# You can add other Sphinx-Immaterial theme options like below
other_options = {
    "repo_url": "https://github.com/useblocks/useblocks-theme",
    "repo_name": "useblocks-theme",
    "repo_type": "github",
}
html_theme_options.update(other_options)

html_static_path = ["ub_theme/css", "ub_theme/js"]
html_css_files = ['ub-theme.css']
html_js_files = ['ub-theme.js']

```

## Changelog

* 28.12.2022 - Setup and added the initial Useblocks theme codes

Commit message:

Updated CSS stylesheets and docs on how to apply the theme customization.

README.md, after:

# useblocks-theme
This repository contains the theme for all Useblock documentation sites.

> **NOTE:** 
> - Useblocks uses the Sphinx-Immaterial theme so ensure that the theme is already installed and applied.
> - Install `sphinx_immaterial` by running this command: `pip install sphinx-immaterial`.
> - Then activate the theme by adding it to the `extension` variable under **conf.py**: `extensions = ["sphinx_immaterial"]`
> - And change the `html_theme` variable to `html_theme = "sphinx_immaterial"`

## Installation
To install the files from this repository, you must have [Git](https://git-scm.com) installed.

* Change directory to your preferred docs working directory
  ```bash
  cd docs
  ```
* Download the files from the repository:
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/useblocks/useblocks-theme.git 
  ```

## Configuration

You must configure the following in the **conf.py** file of the Sphinx documentation project.

* In order to import the **ub_theme** package, Python searches through the directories on `sys.path` looking for the package subdirectory. 
    * Add the parent path of the **ub_theme** folder to `sys.path`.
      ```python
        import os
        import sys
        sys.path.append(os.path.abspath(".")) # Example if `ub_theme` folder is in the same folder as the `conf.py` file
        ```
* Add the `html_theme_options` to your **conf.py**:
    * Import the theme options for Useblocks.
      ```python
      from ub_theme.conf import html_theme_options
        ```
    * Set it as the value for the `html_theme_options` variable.
      ```python
      html_theme_options = html_theme_options
        ```
* Add the custom template changes folder to the `templates_path` variable.
  ```python
  templates_path = ["_templates", "ub_theme/templates"]
  ```
* Add custom CSS changes:
    * Add the folder containing the CSS files to the `html_static_path` variable.
      ```python
      html_static_path = ["ub_theme/css"]
        ```
    * Add the custom CSS files to the `html_css_files` variable.
      ```python
      html_css_files = ["ub-theme.css"]
        ```
* Add custom JS changes:
    * Add the folder containing the JS files to the `html_static_path` variable.
      ```python
      html_static_path = ["ub_theme/js"]
        ```
    * Add the custom JS files to the `html_js_files` variable.
      ```python
      html_js_files = ["ub-theme.js"]
        ```
  
The final configuration should look like below:
```python
import sys
import os

sys.path.append(os.path.abspath("."))

from ub_theme.conf import html_theme_options

extensions = [
    "sphinx_immaterial",
]

templates_path = ["_templates", "ub_theme/templates"]

html_theme = "sphinx_immaterial"
html_theme_options = html_theme_options

# You can add other Sphinx-Immaterial theme options like below
other_options = {
    "repo_url": "https://github.com/useblocks/useblocks-theme",
    "repo_name": "useblocks-theme",
    "repo_type": "github",
}
html_theme_options.update(other_options)

html_static_path = ["_static", "ub_theme/css", "ub_theme/js"]
html_css_files = ["ub-theme.css"]
html_js_files = ["ub-theme.js"]

```

## Changelog

* 13.01.2023 - Updated CSS stylesheets and docs on how to apply the theme customization.
* 28.12.2022 - Setup and added the initial Useblocks theme codes.
